# PGProv : Provenance for Property Graph Queries

## Overview

**PGProv** is a Java library that can be used to add provenance support for GQL-compliant graph databases.
Provenance captures the data and transformations that contributed to a particular query result.
A GQL query in a graph database results in a relation and with PGProv, 
for each row in a GQL query result we capture the provenance details for each result.

This repository contains
* [**data**](./data): contains our data processing pipelines for LDBC Finbench and SNB-BI benchmarks
* [**experiments**](./experiments): contains the experiment driver and the results as CSV files
* [**pgprov-core**](./pgprov-core): a middleware-library facilitating provenance computation
* [**plugin**](./plugin): Neo4j plugin implementation which uses the above

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
* Maven
* Java

[Skip] This repository already includes the executable parser code for GQL with Antlr. It was generated by running the following script.
```
cd gql
./parser-generator.sh
```

## Data Setup

1. Download [LDBC Finbench](./data/download/ldbc_finbench/README.md) and [LDBC SNB-BI data](./data/download/ldbc_snb/README.md).

2. [Load a dataset to Neo4j](./data/load/neo4j/README.md). 

## Dataset
TODO : For the convenience of running experiments, the datasets used (with updated headers) along with the parameters will be published.

## Run Experiments

1. Build both `pgprov-core` and neo4j `plugin`.
```
mvn clean package
```

2. Build the experiments driver.
```
cd experiments/driver
mvn clean package
```

3. Update [.env](experiments/.env) file and run experiments for a dataset.
```
.\test_ne04j.sh
```

## Use PGProv

1. Place the plugin in `plugin\target` inside the `plugins` folder of neo4j and start your Neo4J database
```
mvn clean package
```
2. You may use `org.pgprov.getWhyProvenance(query, params)` procedure to test the query.




